Zubair Munir
JOHAR TOWN,LAHORE PAKISTAN
+92 (306) 617-2561 ZUBIARMUNIR263@GMAIL.COM WWW.LINKEDIN.COM/IN/ZUBAIR-MUNIR

Professional Summary
●
Microsoft Certified Professional 5+ years of solid experience with mobile app
development in .NET MAUI, Xamarin Forms,Xamarin.Android, Azure B2C
Authentication, Flutter,Provider ,GetXMicrosoft Graph Api’s , including technical
design, mobile and, design patterns, UI/UX, unit testing, automation testing,
Visual Studio App Center, App Store, TestFlight and Play Store app deployment /
submission.
●
Solid understanding of the core mobile framework (MVC, MVVM), application
life-cycle, Data-binding, Dependency injection, design principles, best practices,
and user experience.
●
Having expertise in UX design and development of the mobile application architecture
from start to end. Writing robust, scalable, and reusable code.
Technical Skills
Technologies: .NET MAUI, Xamarin-Forms,Xamarin.Android Xamarin.iOS Flutter, C#, Dart,
Java-Script, Azure AD, Azure AD B2C,
Microsoft Graph Api, XML, Firebase. App-Center,
Design Patterns, Clean Architecture, Unit Testing, Data-Binding, Dependency Injection, Rest
API, Retrofit2, Twilio, Postman, Google Maps, SQLite Offline support.
Databases: SQLite.
Development Tools: Visual Studio, XCode,Visual studio Code, Azure, Git, TFS, Teams.
Roles & Responsibilities:
●
Developed UI/UX for SGDD Portalen for both Android and iOS using .NET MAUI
Xamarin. Forms (Cross Platform), Xamarin.Android, Xamarin. IOS and Native
Android and Native iOS Custom Renderers.
●
Architecture Xamarin application using SOLID principles, Dependency Injection,
Abstractions and MVVM.
●
Integrated ASP.NET Web Api Identity OAuth Login and Registration support into
application.
●
Consumed and Develop RESTful web services developed in ASP.NET Web API.
●
Used AppCenter for beta testing and integrated Xamarin Insights and Crash
analytics to keep track of mobile application usage, statistics and reports.
●
Integrated offline data storage support with SQLite via ORM with Online and offline
data synchronization support.
●
Using sync service, manage data offline and online.
●
Using Android and iOS Services and third-party tools in Xamarin.
●
Use Custom Renderers on Native Platform.
●
Use Third Party Tools (NuGet Packages).
●
Integration of Facebook login and google login.
●
Bug Fixing and Support.

●
Integration firebase Notification.
●
Integration SginalR.
●
Excellent organizational, communication, presentation, and interpersonal skills.
●
Having good verbal and written communication skills. Excellent team collaboration
and coordination.

Professional Experience:
Systems Limited
Consultant Mobile Development
NOV 2021 – Present
1. ANGLR-Mobile Application (Xamarin.Forms)
It is an ERP Based mobile App used by Visionet .The fishing app that helps new and
experienced anglers alike plan, record, and improve their fishing trips. ANGLR transforms
your device into a fishing intelligence tool.
Review fishing reports & catch fish based on historical data to constantly improve.
Drop over 15 different waypoints. Map GPS routes, mark catches in a fishing logbook,
and automatically capture fishing conditions. Analyze from your fishing analytics
dashboard. Share fishing points with friends.
1.
Implement the new functionalities and modules.
2.
Troubleshoot, debug and upgrade existing applications.
3.
Produce clean, efficient code based on specifications.
Technologies:C#, Xamarin. Forms, MVVM Light, Prism, Dependency Injection using
Unity, Xamarin. Android, Xamarin. iOS, Interface implementation, Auto mapper,
SharePoint web api caller, Custom Renderers, SQLite, Logger, Unit testing.
2. Girdawari - Mobile Application (PLRA Digital Gardawari )
The Gardawari Mobile App to be developed for the Punjab Land Record Authority. DMM User
will add gardawari Crop inspection and Taghayyurat information through Gardawari mobile
app, while Gardawar will endorse and make corrections if needed. Once Gardawari will be
endorsed by the Gardawar, Taghayyurat will be created in the result and will be sent to ADLR
for decision.
●
Create the UI of the App.
●
SQLite for locally store data.
●
Offline functionality.
●
Integration of API's.
●
Manage users based on their role.
Technologies:C#, Xamarin. Forms, MVVM Light, Prism, Dependency Injection using
Unity, Xamarin. Android, Xamarin. iOS, Interface implementation, Auto mapper,
SharePoint web api caller, Custom Renderers, SQLite, Logger, Unit testing.
3. Power International Holding - Mobile Application (Flutter)
●
The purpose of app to facilitate the user that can send the document for approvals
according to their requirement. The user can select the multiple approvers and also add
the comments to describe the purpose of document and then can send it for approval.
Once the document is approved by their respective approver the document is updated
with the status.
●
Create the Clone of the app created in Powers App.
●
Integrate Microsoft login.

●
Create the UI of the App.
●
Integration of API's.
4. Sports Corner Mobile Application - Mobile Application (Flutter)
Ecommerce Application for one of our
Qatar based client, this application is made on
Flutter
primarily provides e-commerce
solution where user can see all products
available on product catalog, check nearest store
on google maps, track his/her order,
and lodge complaint along with payment gateway services through the application.
Push Notification, Google maps, Firebase, State Management with Provider, Crash
Analytics,
Mixins, OOP, Responsive Layout with Layout Builder, Sizer and MediaQuery,
REST APIs, JSON
Serialization, Guest Checkout, MVVM, Light and Dark Mode,
Internationalization, E-commerce.
5. Dominos - Mobile Application ( .NET MAUI )
The mobile application is built on .NET MAUI The core idea of this product is to online pizza
order and deliver to the customer location within the given time.
Technologies:.Net MAUI, C# ,XAML, SQLite, Unit testing.
True Tech Pvt Ltd.
Software Engineer
FEB 2019 – NOV
2021
6. Employee Search-Mobile Application(Xamarin.Forms)
We have shown users brands pages like BD, Optimera etc. Users select brand and
employees are fetching again that brand and populate list and User can search
employees and we use long running tasks for fetching the images of employees in
background without blocking UI. Use directly adding contact in phone from the
mobile app, send message to that user from mobile and with email as well from
the mobile app.
7. Mileages (Xamarin.Forms)
When users go to the mileage module, we have made 3 Tabs. Draft, Treated and
Approved. User Shows data by status wise in all 3 tabs. Users create mileage with
new form, and we have use Google Api to calculate distance and search the
addresses. Use can enter kilometers as well and we have created custom keyboard
for using commas with numerics for Danish customers. User can save mileage in
draft as well and save directly in approval as well.
8. Expenses (Xamarin.Forms)
In Expense we give two tabs Treated and Not Treated. In Expense we have given
Camera, Gallery, Attach Documents Functionality. User can select them
categories, type1 and type 2 using filter id from the dropdowns. User Can add
their currency and add the amount according to the currency. We have sent directly
expense is approved and in draft as well.
9 .Inventory Modules (Xamarin.Forms)
We have given the Barcode Reader functionality using ZXing.net and auto open
and hide the soft keyboard in the app for scanning, adding in cart, deleting, updating the
products and booking the orders. This functionality works offline and online as well.
We have use Visual Studio App Center for publishing the app and we have made over

500 versions in four years in production and the app is currently in development phase
too. We have used Visual Studio App Center Logging all over the app.
Important Note: we are not blocking the user in any case in app, and we are using
Pending Changes Service. User will make transactions in whole app with blocking and
The service will run in the background and sync data in the Server using a local database.
This whole app is in offline mode. We use SQLite and task table that is associated to
every module. So, every entry contacts the task model and we save data in task tables.
So, when there is internet coming, we sync all data one by one on the server.
Technologies: C#, Xamarin. Forms, MVVM Light, Prism, Dependency Injection using
Unity, Xamarin. Android, Xamarin. iOS, Interface implementation, Auto mapper,
SharePoint web api caller, Custom Renderers, SQLite, Logger, Unit testing.
10. Freedom (Xamarin.Android)
Designing Product Security Mechanisms using B2C Authentication with Graph Api.
Using Twilio and SendGrid for OTP verification. Developing Android Native Application
in Xamarin.Android using MVVM Architecture.
Technologies: C#, Microsoft Azure AD, Azure B2C, User Flows, Policies, Twilio,
SendGrid, Native iOS, Native Android, Entity Framework Code First, Xamarin.Android.

Microsoft Certifications
70-480 - Introduction to Programming in HTML, CSS, JavaScript
Education
Bachelor of Science: Software Engineering – 2014-2018
University of Gujrat, Gujrat Pakistan