Zain Mansoor
Backend Java Developer and Computer Scientist
Phone:
+92 331 8436007
Address:
105 Ali Block Awan Town Lahore
Email:
znmansoor@gmail.com
Aspiring for career enriching assignments as Software Engineer preferably in an organization having multinational software
development environment where I have opportunities to contribute my best.
EXPERIENCE
Ascertia PVT Limited
Senior Software Engineer
November 2017 – Present
Primarily, the designation was to work in different paradigms of the microservices architectural based complete PKI solution
ADSS in and with the passage of time I have got the opportunity to lead developer teams on routine basis in the same product.
Took full responsibility in all aspects including arranging discussions with all stake holders, proper requirement analysis and
understanding, development, resource management, documentation and delivery on time.
Created and managed technical documents, Client SDK developer guides and release notes.
Technical Key Areas
Worked on remote authorized digital signature service and done integration with signature activation module.
Integrated IDP/IAM for Authentication/Authorization for Remote Signatures using SAML and OpenID-Connect protocols.
Implemented ADSS Service that computes Hmac over provided hashes with software and HSM based keys, also
implemented NPKD Service that is a part of ADSS e-passport solution with ldap integration.
Provided native signing support for Utimaco CP5 HSM using integration with driver library using JNI calls as an in
replaced of standard PKCS 11.
Upgraded Tomcat, Hibernate and DBCP Connection pool to latest version in ADSS product.
IQVIS
Software Engineer
May 2016 – August 2017
As Software Engineer at IQVIS, I started working on project IMARS developed using java, spring and hibernate. The aim of
development was
Produce Robust Application
Write Generic & Optimized Code
Manipulate best practices in SQL
Project Performance
Arcana Info
Oracle Support Engineer
September 2015 – February 2016
Providing 24x7 support to clients
Worked on projects POC’s including Oracle Advanced Compression
Oracle Restart to Oracle RAC conversion at Mobilink Pakistan – DBA
Deployment of Oracle Real Application Cluster on Oracle 2 x SPARC T5-2 servers
Grid Infrastructure Upgradation/ASM Migration from 11.2.0.3 to 11.2.0.4
Migration of Oracle database to Oracle RAC
Diamond Group of Industries
Oracle DBA
March 2015 – August 2015
Providing application and database support for Oracle EBS R12
Providing database support for in-house legacy application system
Cloning and Patching of Oracle Applications R12.1.3 and Oracle Database 11GR1
Oracle Instance and Linux Kernel Parameters Tuning
Health check-up and monitoring backup activities
Refreshing test and UAT instances as needed
Performing status checks by monitoring the Alert log, Trace files of the databases
Self-Education and Improvement
Created using Resumonk - Online Resume Builder

SKILLS
Programming Language: Java, C, C++, ASM
Databases: MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, MSSQL
Frameworks: Spring Core, Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring MVC, Struts, Hibernate, Hikari CP
Java EE Stack: JPA, JTA, CDI, Servlet, JSP
Technologies: Multi-tenancy, Microservices, SAML, OpenID-Connect, SSO
PKI: Digtial Signatures, CMS, XML digsig, PKCS1, PKCS7, PKCS11
Servlet Containers: Tomcat, Undertow
Operation Systems: Windows, Linux, Unix, Solaris
EDUCATION
COMSATS Institute of Information Technology Lahore
Bachelors of Computer Science
2010-2014
Mansoora Model Degree College, Lahore
Intermediate Pre-Engineering
2007-2009
Govt. High School, Lahore
Matriculation
2005-2007
REFERENCE
References are available upon request.

Created using Resumonk - Online Resume Builder